in this video we are making hydrochloric
acid gas by a reaction of concentrated
sulfuric acid this one has around 95%
and captions sold it you can use any
salt it just has to be sodium chloride
for the first step take some drops of
your concentrated sulfuric acid in a
pipette so these are around 2
milliliters maybe and then stick it in a
test tube like this and make sure that
is no air can pass through the hole and
close your sulfuric acid bottle and then
go on the next step
especially in this experiment it's
absolutely necessary to wear those acid
resistant gloves because sulfuric acid
is highly corrosive and can destroy your
skin in your your hands of course you
have to make sure to wear safety glasses
too after having put around 1 centimeter
of salt in your test tube put back on
your pipette with a concentrated
sulfuric acid use a tube like this to
make air proof connection between your
test tube and a water with your magnetic
stirrer to make sure that the gas will
go from here in the water
the magnetic stirrer is not absolutely
necessary but it's a good thing to mix
up the water with hydrochloric acid
later so if you have one turn it on now
and go on with next step
now put some pressure on your pipette so
that the sulfuric acid would drop down
on the sole and you will see that a gas
is coming out of here and getting here
in the water it's an exothermic reaction
so the test tube the turnip if long
often enough take some more salt or
sulfuric acid and drop it down again the
reaction will go on and more
hydrochloric acid will be produced the
pH meter which first showed a pH of
around seven now shows the pH of 2.6
because the hydrochloric gas in the
water makes an acid solution apart from
the hydrochloric acid there's also put
sodium sulfate produced with this
reaction here you can see the chemical
equation of this reaction so sodium
chloride and sulfuric acid makes
hydrochloric acid and sodium sulfate now
thanks for watching and please subscribe
and comment